There is a battle that has lasted for centuries and continues down to our day.
It's a battle of wills.
The will of disobedient humans who fight against Jehovah's will.
Rather than submitting or surrendering their will to do Jehovah's will,
most humans refuse to make peace with him, becoming peace-breakers.
On the other hand, millions throughout the centuries have humbly submitted to Jehovah's will,
making his will their will, they are known as peace-makers.
By sewing peace with Jehovah, they have reaped the benefits of having a close personal friendship with him,
and the wonderful hope of living forever in a peaceful new world.
Even so, we must admit, it can be difficult at times to accept and then follow Jehovah's direction,
or direction that we may receive from his organization,
especially if we don't understand the reasons behind the direction, or it's not what we might prefer.
What is needed to sew and reap peace?
Humility.
Humility is defined as a lowliness of mind, freedom from pride or arrogance.
A humble person is not self-willed, but they actively look for ways to sew peace with Jehovah and others.
He's known as a peacemaker.
What is the result of humility and sewing peace?
Notice what Proverbs 22 in verse 4 says.
The result of humility and the fear of Jehovah is reaping, notice, riches and glory and life.
Yes, everlasting life.
The Bible contains many fine examples of those who sewed and reaped peace by humbly submitting to Jehovah's will.
Let's consider the example of the Gibbianites.
The Gibbianites weren't the enemies of the Israelites?
Yes.
So how did they humbly sew and reap peace with Jehovah and with his people?
As you recall, after Joshua led the Israelites across the Jordan River into the Promised Land,
Jehovah directed them to remove the pagan Canaanite nations who dwelt there.
This included the Gibbianites.
The account that Joshua 9 informs us that the Gibbianites were plainly told that it was Jehovah's will that the Canaanites be annihilated.
Israel's stunning victories over Jericho and AI made it very clear that Jehovah was fighting for his people.
And the Gibbianites did not want to be next, but what could they do if this was Jehovah's will?
Well, they devised an interesting plan.
They sent representatives to seek peace with the Israelites and thereby with Jehovah.
According to verse 11, they were instructed,
we will be your servants.
Now, make a covenant with us.
So this is what they were to say as representatives.
Verse 4 says that the Gibbianites acted shrewdly by trying to trick the Israelites with their worn out clothing and provisions.
Pretending that they had traveled from a very distant land, but were actually just 20 miles away.
Did their plan work?
Despite their deception, yes, their plan was successful.
In fact, in verse 15, Joshua made a covenant of peace with the Gibbianites.
Evidently, this was in harmony with Jehovah's will and reflected their humility and desire to seek peace with him
and his people.
They demonstrated their humility and submission to Jehovah's will and his representative, Joshua,
by following whatever direction they received.
In fact, notice the direction in verse 27.
Says, Joshua made them gatherers of wood and drawers of water for the assembly and for Jehovah's altar.
Although the Gibbianite men were likely skilled warriors, they were happy and content to do whatever work they were given to support pure worship.
Humbly following direction saved their lives and brought them peace.
How can we imitate the Gibbianites by bringing our lives into harmony with Jehovah's will?
For some, this may require making big changes, adjusting their thinking, giving up harmful practices and avoiding bad associates.
We can also imitate the Gibbianites by being willing to perform whatever assignments we are given, humbly to support pure worship.
So the lesson is clear.
Sewing and reaping peace requires humbly following direction.
This lesson is highlighted in the following dramatization.
Notice the benefits of submitting to Jehovah's direction.
You see, pandemic lasted longer than any of us expected.
And all the conflicting news reports just added to the stress.
Then my sister lost her job and had to move in with us.
So yeah, it was me and Kelly, Nicole, and Dad.
Twenty seconds, son. Twenty seconds.
Where's your mask?
Don't worry.
Here, you can use this one.
I won't get near anyone.
Gary!
Listen, nobody at the warehouse is wearing masks.
And do you know how many people have actually gotten sick?
Zero.
So far.
You saw the last governing body update.
We can't let down our guard.
Not now.
Dad, I get it, okay?
Look, I think it's great that the brothers are trying to keep us safe.
But...
But what?
Don't you think that they're, you know, overreacting?
But of course, it wasn't the brothers who had the problem.
It was me.
A week later, I found out that a friend in our service group was in the hospital with COVID-19.
He was young.
And he'd been taking all the rape precautions.
I had really let my guard down.
Oh, it's not the time to slacken our hand when it comes to safety.
Don't let your guard down.
Don't think the virus can't affect you or your family.
I saw how the organization was really trying to protect us.
And how much my decisions were affecting others, including the people I love the most.
As the pandemic dragged on, I learned the importance of being humble and obedient.
Following Jehovah's direction didn't just help us stay safe.
It brought us peace.
What timely lessons, especially with all that we are facing today.
Like Gary, there are times that we may need to adjust our thinking on matters
and put aside our personal opinions and preferences so we can loyally and humbly follow Jehovah's direction.
Or whatever direction we receive from his representatives, the faithful and discreet slave.
Gary learned an important lesson.
Humbly following direction doesn't just help our family stay safe.
It brings us happiness and peace.
A vital lesson for us today.
What can help us to humbly follow direction now, as well as in the future?
Note what the Apostle Paul said at Ephesians chapter 5 and verse 17.
He says, stop being unreasonable, but keep perceiving what the will of Jehovah is.
The Bible clearly shows God's thinking on matters.
But what if it's not so clear to us?
Or we struggle to fully grasp how it applies to us personally or in a given situation?
What did Paul advise?
To keep perceiving what the will of Jehovah is.
How can we do that?
Just as a minor keeps digging deep below the surface of the ground to find precious gems,
we must look beyond the surface of what we read in the Bible.
This requires that we keep digging deep, carefully searching for gems in the form of Bible principles.
Then, we must prayerfully meditate on what we find.
Then, Jehovah's precious thoughts will become our thoughts.
Perceiving Jehovah's thinking on matters will help us to avoid getting into a battle of wills,
so we can follow his direction or whatever direction we receive from the governing body.
Like the Gibbianites, may we be peacemakers by continuing to sow peace with Jehovah and his people.
As we humbly make Jehovah's will, our will, we will joyfully reap abundant peace forever.
Brother Kenneth Flodin, a helper to the teaching committee, will now consider the next talk of the symposium.
How they sowed and reap peace?
Gideon.